= Installation

== Install Ruby & Gems
*NOTE:* Right now, this gem requires ruby 1.8.7 to run. We are working on testing it on ruby 1.9.1 and will update the gem when it's ready. 

=== OS X
Ruby is installed by default on Leopard and Snow Leopard (10.5, 10.6).  You will, however, need to install XCode in order to use the KRL gem. XCode can be found on your OS X install DVDs or from here: http://developer.apple.com/technologies/xcode.html


=== Linux
*Ubuntu*

Install the full ruby package using
  sudo apt-get install ruby-full
  sudo apt-get install rubygems

You will need to add the following to your path to get the gem to work:
	/var/lib/gems/1.8/bin

You can do that by adding the following line to your ~/.bashrc file
	export PATH=/var/lib/gems/1.8/bin:$PATH

*CentOS or RedHat*

There are many ways to install ruby on CentOS and Redhat. One caution is that the default ruby install from yum will install ruby 1.8.5 which isn't going to work with this gem.  If you have ruby version 1.8.7 and rubygems 1.3.6 you are good to go. If you don't, these are the easiest steps I've found for getting it installed:

	1. sudo yum -y install gcc make zlib-devel openssl-devel
	2. mkdir ~/src
	3. cd ~/src
	4. curl -O ftp://ftp.ruby-lang.org/pub/ruby/1.8/ruby-1.8.7-p72.tar.gz
	5. tar -zxvf ruby-1.8.7-p72.tar.gz
	6. cd ruby-1.8.7-p72
	7. sudo ./configure && sudo make && sudo make install
	8. cd ..
	9. curl -O http://production.cf.rubygems.org/rubygems/rubygems-1.3.6.tgz
	10. tar -zxvf rubygems-1.3.6.tgz
	11. cd rubygems-1.3.6
	12. sudo ruby setup.rb
	13. sudo gem update --system


=== Windows
Download ruby one-click installer at http://rubyinstaller.org/download.html Make sure you download ruby 1.8.7.

Make sure that during the installation you check the option: Add ruby executables to your PATH.

Once you have completed the installation, you should be able to go to the command line and run
  ruby -v
You should see:
  ruby 1.8.7 (2010-01-10 patchlevel 249) [i386-mingw32]


== Install the gem
From a command line type:
  sudo gem install krl

Windows users can leave off the "sudo"

== Authenticating
From a command line type:
  krl-connect

This will launch a lightweight web server that will allow you to perform the OAuth ceremony with the Kynetx servers.  Open a browser and go to http://localhost:3009 and follow the instructions. Once completed, you can go back to your terminal and stop the web server by pressing ctrl+c.

== Using the Gem
For detailed instructions on using the gem type:
  krl help

Which will give you this output:
  Usage: krl <command> <args>
  
  Commands:
  apps                Lists your apps
                      Example: krl apps
  checkout            Creates a directory structure with the application.
                      you have checked out. 
                      Example: krl checkout a1x2
  create              Creates a new application. Specify an app name and, optionally, a description.
                      Example: krl create 'Hello World'
                      or: krl create 'Hello World' 'App that displays Hello World'
  info                Displays general information about an application. If run from the 
                      application directoy, no arguments are needed. Otherwise an app id 
                      must be specified. (Note: you must have permission to view the app.)
                      Example (from app dir): krl info
                      or (from anywhere): krl info a1x2
  
  You must be in the root directory of your app to run the following commands:
  update              Overwrites your current .krl file with the specified version.
                      If no version is specified, then the latest version will be used.
                      Example: krl update
                      or: krl update 10
  commit              Uploads your .krl file as the latest version. 
                      Example: krl commit
                      You can also specify a comment for the version you are committing.
                      Example: krl commit "This will be production"
  deploy              Deploys a version of your application. If no version is
                      specified then the latest version is deployed.
                      Example: krl deploy
                      or: krl deploy 10  -- deploys version 10
  versions            Displays a list of all the versions of your app.
                      Example: krl versions
                      You can also display just the last (n) versions by specifying a limit.
                      Example: krl versions 10 -- shows only the previous 10 versions
  note                Adds a note to a version.
                      Example: krl note 10 'This is the deployed version'
                       -- Adds a note to version 10 of 'This is the deployed version'
  show                Shows a specific version of the app.
                      Example: krl show 10
  generate            Generates an endpoint and places it in the endpoints directory.
                      Name, author, and description are optional and default to the user and app settings.
                      Example: krl generate firefox
                      Available endpoints: 
                      firefox name author description
                      chrome name author description
                      ie name author description
                      bookmarklet
                      infocard name datasets(optional)
  test                Generates a test endpoint that always executes the latest version.
                      The endpoint is saved in the test directory. If no endpoint is 
                      specified a bookmarklet will be generated.
                      Example: krl test
                      or: krl test infocard
                      Available test endpoints: 
                      bookmarklet runtime(optional)
                      infocard name datasets(optional)
  check               Performs a syntax check of your .krl file.
                      The location of the parser can also be added
                      as an optional argument.
                      Example: krl check
                      or: krl check http://0.0.0.0/manage/parse/ruleset
========= Optional Growl Functionality ========= 
To get the optional growl notify functionality, you will need to have the growl gem for ruby installed. If you do not, enter this at the command prompt:
        sudo gem install growl
Followed by your password. 
